# Terminology
This document provides a set of defintions for acronyms and terms commonly used by the UBC SubBots Project Dolphin team.
Alphabetically sorted.

## Channel
A set of components through which a single signal in the simulation propagates. For example, the path taken by a signal generated by one hydrophone throughout the system represents a single channel. In essence, each hydrophone has its own corresponding channel.

## Component
An term referring to a single, specific part of the sound localization system modelled in the simulator. A component could be used to describe anything used to manipulate signals in the system. Some examples of components are:  
* a specific amplifier implementation
* a specific filter implementaiton
* a specific algorithm used to analyze the signal and generate a time difference
* a specific algorithm used to generate a position from a set of time differences

Breaking down the system into components makes the system more modular, and allows to easily swap independent components to find the optimal overall system. In the simulator, a component chain is constructed from configuration through which the signal propagates until a pinger position is found. 

For a list of components and their descriptions, refer to the [component and stage database](component_database.md).

Components can be imported (given a correct virtual environment setup) using

```python
from components.<component_specific_package>.<component_name> import <ComponentName>
```

## NLS (Nonlinear Least Squares)
An algorithm used to solve an overconstrained set of nonlinear equations. Implemented in the simulator as a component, NLSPositionCalc, used to calculate the position of the pinger from a set of time differences.

## Stage
A stage refers to a group of the same components bundled together to handle multiple channels. 

For example, given a simulator configuration of N hydrophones, there will be N signal channels in the simulator. As a result, we would need N-1 FourierAnalysis components to determine the time difference between each hydrophone signal. A FourierAnalysisStage is simply a wrapper that takes the N channels as a bundle, instantiates N-1 different FourierAnalysis components within it to manipulate the signal, and output a set of N-1 time differences.

For a list of stages and their descriptions, refer to the [component and stage database](component_database.md).

Stages can be imported (given a correct virtual environment setup) using

```python
from stages.<stage_specific_package>.<stage_name> import <StageName>
```

### TDOA (Time Difference Of Arrival)
The term refers to the time difference between when the signal arrived at a set of two hydrophones. These time differences are used to calculate the position of the pinger. components.tdoa is a package containing all components in the simulator used to calculate TDOA values, while stages.tdoa contains all corresponding stages